# State management in asp.net
- State Management is a way to retain the state of an object, page, State management tells how you store information over the lifetime of the application. This information can be a user's name or shopping cart for an online shopping site.
- State management can be classified as<br>
- Client side State management <br>
- Server side State managemnet<br>
- Client side State management:-Whenever we use Client-Side State Management, the state related information will directly get stored on the client-side. That specific information will travel back and communicate with every request generated by the user then afterwards provides responses after server-side communication.Client side State management techniques are:-<br>
1.View State:-It is used for storing user data in ASP.NET<br>
2.Hidden field:-Hidden field is used for storing small amounts of data on the client side<br>
3.Cookies:-A set of Cookies is a small text file that is stored in the user's hard drive using the client's browser<br>
4.Control State:-Control state is based on the custom control option<br>
3.Query Strings:-Query strings can be used for some specific purposes like used for holding some value from a different page and move these values to the different page<br>
- Server side state management:-Server-Side State Management is different from Client-Side State Management but the operations and working is somewhat the same in functionality.In Server-Side State Management all the information is stored in the user memory. Due to this functionality there is more secure domains at the server side in comparison to Client-Side State Management.Server side state management techniques are:-<br>
1.Session state:-Session is a very important technique to maintain state. Normally session is used to store information and identity. The server stores information using Sessionid<br>
2.Application state:-Application State is a server side management state. It is also called application level state management.This mainly stores user activity in server memory and application event is shown in Global.asax file.

 
